---
title: '2014: Small review of a really nice year'
date: 2014-12-24T04:51:52+00:00
tags:
  - classics
  - meta

---

**Disclaimer: I haven&#8217;t reviewed this post. It was written in one-shot. I hope it is understandable.**

Hi there. This is possibly the last post from me in this platform. However, saying this doesn&#8217;t mean much, because I&#8217;ve already said that a thousand times. Maybe you might recall all the platforms / static site generators I have tried to get out of WordPress:

  * **Google Sites** as a personal wiki &#8211; notes and stuff
  * **Jekyll** as personal website and  blog
  * **nanoc** as personal website and blog
  * **Octopress** as personal blog (this one just lasted one day, poor boy)

This doesn&#8217;t count the times I said I would quit from wordpress without considering changing platforms. Anyways, this is not really the subject of this post.

Last year I wrote a post similar to this one: ~~http://thiagoperrotta.wordpress.com/2013/12/29/retrospectiva-2013-blablabla/~~

And now, here I will register some small changes, tids and bits I&#8217;ve learned and/or discovered this year.I won&#8217;t bother creating links: I&#8217;ll write just pure text.

# The actual post, please

Detailing everything would be a tough task, so I will present this post in form of lists, trying to order everything chronologically, and trying to be reasonably brief:

  * **Campus Party**: this was the first great event I had the opportunity to participate of. It was really nice, so nice that I&#8217;m going to participate of it again next year. In particular:
      * I participated of a hackathon for the first time. It was from Mozilla, and the code I written for it is available on my GitHub, in a repository called [Riddlefox](https://github.com/thiagowfx/Riddlefox). It is a small riddle game for Firefox OS.
      * I participated of my first &#8216;Capture the Flag&#8217; (CTF) competition, without actually knowing it was a CTF. Promoted by CERT.br, I won a Kindle Paperwhite 2 &#8212; without knowing it was the best Kindle at the time &#8211;, ending at the second place. Today, the Kindle is one of the devices I most use; this was a really good and super serendipity. There is a blog post about my experience in both the hackathon and the CTF.
      * I opened my eyes for the concept of &#8216;communities&#8217;, thanks to the several open source communities in this event. Today, I&#8217;m an active member of the Arch Linux community, and I owe part of this awareness to CP (and another one to Jono Bacon, keep reading).
      * I opened my eyes for the web development world. I&#8217;m not a super fan of it yet, maybe because I keep fighting with Javascript and its friends, however it is now one of such things that is on my planning list of things to keep studying in the future.
      * I could learn the difference between college lectures and &#8216;real-world-out-there-,-here-is-business-bro&#8217; ones. Each one has their own advantages, which shall not be discussed here.
  * **Arch Linux**: big step. Period. Since two years ago, I was searching for a community to settle on. I tried several groups from the university where I study, since groups focused on business, passing by ones focused on mechanical engineering, and lasting on competitive programming. The group I most liked was the last one, which I&#8217;m still part of &#8212; kind of. However, competitive programming isn&#8217;t really a day-to-day group; it is something more spaced, however it is too much focused on solving problems; so, although you can make some friends in there, it is hard to have a sense of community. So, I was still without a home, until&#8230;I realized that the Arch Linux community is the perfect community for me. There are so many things I like in there&#8230;well, I guess I can talk about this another day. However, here are a few things I learned with Arch:
      * communities 😉
      * MediaWiki syntax / style
      * IRC for open source projects (I used IRC in the past, mainly for playing age of empires 2&#8230;)
      * the importance of the command line
      * the importance of &#8220;do it yourself&#8221; and &#8220;do not feed help vampires&#8221;
      * sometimes user centered > user friendly
      * appreciate the feeling of keeping knowing intelligent people, and becoming more intelligent with them, and helping newbies to gain this same instrospection and world view
      * tiling window managers are awesome 🙂 &#8212; currently I&#8217;m using i3
      * mailing lists
  * **Programming languages:** one of the things I said I would like to learn and practice a little more this year. And oh man, I learned a lot. More breadth-first search like than depth-first search, but I learned anyway. Languages I can say I know at least a little include, in the order that I have learned: emacs lisp, &#8216;cmake&#8217; (not really a language, it is more a tool in this sense), golang, javascript / node.js, ruby, haskell, MatLab and R. The most important thing are the paradigms: haskell represents functional programming, golang represents systems programming and ruby represents dynamic programming. Those paradigms are loosely defined in this context, but who cares. Now, my goal for the next year, will be more DFS-like than BFS: I want to further improve my programming knowledge in some of those languages. I&#8217;ll probably dig deeper on Haskell, because I really love functional programming; and possibly on C++ and Python too. Time will reveal that.  There is a point where you realize that learning several programming languages has both its own rewards and its own cons. You tell me what you think when you reach this moment.
  * **MOOCs**: I haven&#8217;t really done many MOOCs this year, however they became more important in my life, and month after month I kept an eye on some of them. In the next year I  will probably be more active in this field. In particular, Coursera is still my preferred platform; but I learned to like edx too. In particular, the best MOOC I done this year was one about Functional Programming, using Haskell, and conducted by Erik Meijer, one of the creators of this language. I finished it just a few days ago.
  * **Slides**: LaTeX  + beamer became my de facto standard way of creating presentations. At least for serious events. With the exception when I have to create slides with other people; for that (=collaborative editing), Google Docs/Drive/Slides continues to be the best way. In particular, LyX is my preferred tool for this.
  * **TV Series**: two of them are worth mentioning: HBO&#8217;s Silicon Valley and Channel 4&#8217;s Black Mirror. Doubled serendipity! Both are very short, ~8 episodes each (as of today). Other series I saw this year aren&#8217;t really worth mentioning, in the majority they are popular sitcoms. One of them ended this year, with the worst end I could ever imagine.
  * **Books**: this year was great for me in this area. Not only because of the Kindle, but because I decided to read more and more compared to the last year. And I really did that. My goodreads profile tells me that I read 50 books this year, almost the double from the last year (26 books). Most of them were technical.
      * I don&#8217;t know how to live without Goodreads anymore.
      * You don&#8217;t really need to buy books on Amazon just because you have a Kindle. In particular, I never bought one. And probably won&#8217;t do it soon. Epub and mobi are the best formats, and I still like fb2, the first one I got used to, when I used to read on my old Nokia E63, with ~2.2&#8221;. PDFs are worth reading on zathura, a minimalistic PDF viewer for *nix.
      * I don&#8217;t know how to live without Calibre anymore.
  * I also learned a little more about **operating systems**. In particular, about FreeBSD, grml (a really nice distro for system administrators and for rescue purposes) and a few other linux distros. The most important thing is that I now try to say Unix and \*nix instead of just Linux. Life doesn&#8217;t end at the Linux kernel, and there are more goodies out there. However, I still think Linux is the best operating system for the desktop. Nowadays I just use Windows for gaming and when I must use a software that isn&#8217;t available for the \*nix platform. Also, docker (and containers, in general) are simply amazing. Period. They will be the future, I bet. Oh, I also played with a few different filesystems, such as btrfs and xfs. Even managed to corrupt my btrfs /home and / due to a bug&#8230;but I could recover it. In particular, snapshotting and compression features are very cool.
  * Talking about **games**&#8230;this wasn&#8217;t a great year for games. The only one worth playing was Tom Clancy&#8217;s Splinter Cell: Conviction. Kongregate is slowly dying :/. I&#8217;m stuck on level 41 (more than I expected, actually).
  * **Music**: Spotify was by best discover of the year. I&#8217;m trying to listen to different (new) music genres and bands whenever I log into it. Sometimes I listen to bands I already know, of course, but my goal is to listen to as many different musics and songs as possible. There is a nice site for that called forgetify. I also discovered blockify, a way of blocking audio ads on Spotify. I don&#8217;t recommend it, because Spotify is a really nice service, and it is offered for free. It is one of the few things I don&#8217;t like to mess with. However, when ads become way too much repetitive, just use it.
  * Learning a little more about **computer graphics** too. I created a game (which you can find on my GitHub &#8212; repository is called [cg-sokoban](https://github.com/thiagowfx/eel-882-computer-graphics-sokoban)) and developed a ray-tracer. OpenGL wasn&#8217;t the most super exciting thing I learned this year, however I got interested on learning about game engines and image processing / computer vision.
  * **Vim.** The epic battle between vim and emacs still continue. I always was an emacs guy, but this year I switched to vim to most of my daily text editing needs. However, I&#8217;m not done (yet) with emacs. I&#8217;m planning to rewrite my emacs configuration from scratch, and create a repository just for it. It is still better as an IDE than vim, but vim is better as a general and fast and miscellaneous text editor. General rule: if your editing task takes less than a hour, then vim is better; otherwise emacs is better. This is my personal opinion/taste, of course.
  * I participated from my first **hackathon** with a team (second hackathon in general); and, as an achievement, my team got the best place in a specific category from it :). Search for HackPuc.
  * I still love **Android**, and I learned a few tricks to optimize it. Most of them are shared in this blog, but others are not (yet?). The thing is, I have the same device (a Motorola Razr I) for almost 2 years, and it still is fast. A little maintenance is necessary, of course; root is also necessary for that. However, it worths the effort. I&#8217;m not even thinking about switching to an iPhone. I even could, if the platform wasn&#8217;t so locked, but I don&#8217;t have reasons to. My next device will probably be a Nexus or a Galaxy Note, or another Motorola. However, I cannot say the same thing about a Mac (OS X). I&#8217;m still in doubt if I should buy or not a Macbook Air in the future (the Pro doesn&#8217;t interest me), or if I should buy a system optimized for Linux and/or Windows gaming. I would also buy a Chromebook, just for the fun of hacking and installing Arch Linux onto it. Its battery is pretty amazing.
  * **Privacy** becomes a concern more and more. I became an adopter of OpenPGP, and I&#8217;m trying to move from the Gmail Web Client to the command line. For now, I have msmtp for sending e-mails. But I still need a more complete stack for that. Notmuch, mutt, emacs, offlineimap? I&#8217;m not really sure. I&#8217;m sure of one thing, though: it probably won&#8217;t be a desktop client, such as claws mail or thunderbird. Why? They are not much flexible. If I ever move out of the Gmail Web Interface, I will use something in the command line, period. I&#8217;m deleting and/or migrating old accounts which still use my old Yahoo mail and I deleted several services I don&#8217;t use anymore.
      * Some **social networks** are becoming deprecated. In particular, I&#8217;m almost done with Facebook. I just use it not to lose serendipity and/or casual important subjects, and because it is the most ubiquitous platform nowadays to communicate with people (WhatsApp is possibly the second one). My news feed is blocked from the web, and I only have access to it from my smartphone. Groups are still important. The only part which includes the &#8220;I&#8217;m done&#8221;, frankly, is related to the news feed. Most of my contacts (it is hard to call them friends) are boring, narcissistic and/or futile. Other ones think they are way too nice/cool and/or important, and keep sharing photos of their vacations and/or words of their new achievements. People don&#8217;t know anymore how to use social networks. They use them more as bragging networks&#8230;this is so sad. In particular, I miss people who can write well. I miss blogs from friends. Status updates are fast and futile; they are not as reflective as a blog posts. Anyways, of course this is not true for everyone; some friends are still relevant to me on Facebook, but there are so few. **SO FEW.** Facebook improved **a lot** &#8216;unfollow management&#8217;, which is what keeps me using it from the smartphone. Frankly, I have unfollowed more than a half of my contacts.
          * The word **selfie** is banned from my vocabulary. It became the most futile word from the year. Telephony companies keeps advertising them, smartphone companies keeps promoting the usage of cameras, people keep becoming more narcissistic with selfies. C&#8217;mon. Hate this word. And it is a word so beautiful&#8230;it is a shame it ended up this way.
      * **Twitter** used to be better, however nowadays it is better as a news feed than Facebook, even if I never interacted with more than a half of the people I follow in there.
      * I&#8217;m now using **tumblr** for sharing links. I got so frustrated about Facebook that I decided to stop posting in there, even &#8220;mildly&#8221; interesting links (most of them aren&#8217;t, anyway). My tumblr acts both as a bookmarking blog and as a platform where people who care about what I post can follow. I wish people do would do the same.
      * Remember I&#8217;m still talking about privacy. I don&#8217;t like posting photos to these social networks. However, this doesn&#8217;t mean I instantly hate people who post photos. However, I think Facebook and Instagram are not good places for that. In particular, Flickr is the place I most like for those things, but this may change. The point is: most of the photos people share are public. They simply don&#8217;t realize the future consequences of that.
      * Caution with the data you post in the cloud. Caution, always think twice!
  * **Reddit** and **Hacker News** are still the best fonts of serendipity I know. For my tastes and my field, of course.
  * I still store a couple of **RSS feeds** from miscellaneous blogs&#8230;in particular, the service I&#8217;m using right now is **Inoreader**. It is the best *free* replacement for Google Reader I&#8217;ve found so far. **Xkcd** is probably the best RSS feed from the list 🙂
  * **Podcasts:** this year was huge for me on this subject. Currently I have **47** podcast feeds in my podcatcher &#8212; which is BeyondPod (Android), super recommended! &#8212; a simply ridiculous number. It is impossible to keep 100% updated, of course. I probably listen regularly to ~15 of them; the others I just poke around to try to find some interesting episode.  Today I listen more podcasts than I watch TV series. There is another thing: I&#8217;m adapting myself to listening every feed in 2x speed. Some of them I listen in 2.5x. You get used to it. Languages? They are mixed; some are in portuguese, some are in English. I also listen to podcasts in English in 2x, this is not just limited to portuguese. The one I most like is Bad Voltage (presented by Jono Bacon, Jeremy Garcia, Bryan Lunduke and Stuart Landridge). This is the only podcast I still listen in 1x. Always. The one in portuguese I most like is probably Hack &#8216;n&#8217; Cast, which I participated as a guest in one episode once. If you want suggestions about what to listen to, don&#8217;t be afraid to ask me.
      * There is one advantage in listening to so much podcasts: I almost don&#8217;t read news. I mean, I don&#8217;t watch Brazilian (capitalist) television (\*almost never\*) and I almost don&#8217;t read news sites (technology or not, doesn&#8217;t really matter). Aside from feeds from social networks (Twitter, Facebook @ Android, InoReader, Reddit), I simply don&#8217;t bother with them. There are two reasons for that. First one, podcasts inform me. It is better to be informed by audio than by text, and it is also more natural for us humans. Second reason: those tech sites became futile. Most of them are bullshit and sensacionalist Even big ones. Mainly big ones&#8230;So, it is more enjoyable to keep up-to-date with podcasts.
          * There is just one problem with that. Local news. It is hard to get informed about them, because they are&#8230;local, duh.  By local I mean, from my geographical region (country, state, city, whatever).
  * **Languages**. One of the best things I done to myself was to write in this blog in English. It isn&#8217;t perfect, of course, and I often write fast, without revising 100%. However, this was one of the factors that improved **much** the way I think in English. What is next? I am thinking whether I should study French or German, I&#8217;m still in doubt. I know a little bit about German, and almost nothing about French; what should be pursued in the future? We&#8217;ll see.
  * **Orgmode**: the best TODO / agenda / organizer I discovered. Both in discipline and structuring your thoughts and plans. I&#8217;m slowly migrating to it. And there is so much to explore&#8230;

# &#8220;The future starts with you&#8221;

This was probably the largest post I written in this blog. Whether it will be the last one (in this platform! Not of my life, damn) or not, I&#8217;m pretty satisfied anyway. I covered most of the things I thought. I haven&#8217;t talked about everything, of course. In particular, I constrained all the topics to a technologic and academic point of view; please don&#8217;t to a review of your personal and/or social life, you should read the section on privacy again :). In particular, I haven&#8217;t talked about programming contests, hackergroup, SwB, bookmarks, dotfiles, repositories, plug-ins, apps, what I hated to learn this year, what I loved to learn this year, professors, education and thoughts about the GPA system, the pirate bay, and so many other things. Again, not entering in my personal life.

In this year, now in more than a half of my college degree being pursued, several things became clear to me, about what should be my next steps. Several things are still unclear, however the point is now I have somewhere to put my feet on. The next year I&#8217;ll probably study more computer graphics, computer networks, programming languages and algorithms.

And&#8230;okay, I&#8217;m stopping here. WordPress tells me I&#8217;ve written more than 3k words. What is the future of this place?

I don&#8217;t know. However, I tried to stop several times. This means something. This means I&#8217;m not 100% comfortable about using WordPress. It is really good, but, for me in particular, it must be better. Not wordpress itself. But the whole way I write those words. I&#8217;m doing this for more than a year now. I&#8217;m doing this up to today because I see value on it, and because I like to do it. It is a really nice way of expressing myself. However, I&#8217;m getting bored of this format/style. I even stopped my tutorial series. This will change. I don&#8217;t know how. I don&#8217;t know the future. However, I feel it is time to stop this. I&#8217;m saying this has a good probability to be my last post in this blog.  I can throw this statement away and keep posting here, of course, I always do that :). However, it is time for me to go one more level up (the original name of this blog was &#8220;sudo ./levelUp&#8221;&#8230;.).

&#8212;

For all of this, I&#8217;m migrating this blog to <a href="https://thiagowfx.github.io/archive" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://thiagowfx.github.io/archive</a>. Not just the blog: I&#8217;ll change the way/style I post too. And I hope you will like it. How? We&#8217;ll see. For now, if you follow this blog by RSS, I&#8217;ll ask you to keep it in your feed list for a while, until the new blog get its own RSS feed (for now, it hasn&#8217;t one). Now, the best way to get in touch with me is by following me on Twitter (@<a href="http://twitter.com/thiagowfx" target="_blank" rel="noopener">thiagowfx</a>). And, if you want a little bit of serendipity, try following me on <a href="http://thiagowfx.tumblr.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Tumblr</a> (you don&#8217;t want to create / don&#8217;t have a Tumblr account, you can use its RSS feed). I&#8217;m slowly moving away from Facebook.

And, dear reader, if you&#8217;re still here&#8230;(what you are doing here anyway?!). I wish you a good New Year. Let&#8217;s move on.

**Observation**: I&#8217;m on vacation right now, of course. So, I&#8217;m open to either a) study groups or b) business. If you want to study something with me, or want me to work for you for a while, this is a nice moment for that. I&#8217;ll keep my Twitter updated with what I&#8217;m studying at the moment&#8230;probably. See ya.
