---
title: "★ Erratic: human-friendly google3 piper snapshots"
date: 2024-10-02T13:33:56+02:00
tags:
  - dev
  - bestof★
---

In the google3 codebase, when working with Piper directly (i.e. not
Fig[-on-CitC]), I often liked to use this tool called `erratic` (abbrev: `er`),
which was a 20% project of another Software Engineer[^1].


## google3 workflow

The workflow is as follows:

- Make some changes: `g4 open`, `g4 edit`, etc
- Create a CL (ChangeList) `g4 change`

Now let's say you're anticipating some heavy refactoring, in the same CL[^2],
that you could potentially regret and want to revert.

This would be a great moment to use `erratic`. After installing it (or aliasing
it, if using it via X20), run:

```shell
% er explain "this is working perfectly before bob@ asked me to refactor it"
```

- Make additional changes
- Feel free to make more snapshots (checkpoints), as you see fit

If you ever want to roll back, run `er list`. It will list all explicit
snapshots you annotated so far. Locate the one you want to roll back to:

```shell
% er list
42 "this is working perfectly before bob@ asked me to refactor it"
78 "second refactoring"
```

Now just roll back to it:

```
% er restore 42
```

Sometimes you'll need to run `g4 add` afterwards. And we're done!

**Colophon**: Why use `erratic` at all, since CitC already does automatic
periodic snapshots out-of-the-box? Because these automatic snapshots are meant
for machines, not humans; they are not very developer-friendly. You could get
  your way around `rsync` + finding the correct timestamps to copy from, but
  that's not fun at all, and not a good use of time either.

## git workflow

How to replicate a similar workflow in a non-Google world?

For most of us, non-Google necessarily means `git`. Let's ignore `hg`
(mercurial) in this context.

There is not much to do, actually: https://github.blog/open-source/git/commits-are-snapshots-not-diffs/

`git` commits are already snapshots. The workflow is:

- Make some changes, then `git add`
- Create a branch (`git switch --create`), commit your changes
- To make a snapshot, just make a new commit and annotate it (`git commit -m
  "foo"`)
- To list your snapshots, run `git rev-list $(git show-branch --merge-base
  HEAD)^..HEAD --pretty`. This will list all commits since your branch diverted.
  You could add an alias to it in your `~/.gitconfig`.
- To roll back, run `git reset --hard {commit}`.

**Caveat**: You will lose track of all commits after `{commit}`. Although it
would still be possible to recover them with `git reflog` (in case of a
mistake), that is not a developer-friendly workflow.

Then the follow-up question is: how to roll back without losing track of
intermediate work?

One way is to create a new branch that points out to `{commit}` instead of
hard-resetting your entire worktree:

```shell
% git checkout -b mynewbranch {commit}
```

Once you are satisfied, just delete the previous branch and then rename the
current one to it.

Another possibility is the use of [git
worktrees](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-worktree) to divert (spin-off) branches.

This becomes a very natural workflow once you repeat it a couple of times.

[^1]: I have gladly peer bonused him. You should _always_ peer bonus those folks
    who helped you become more productive.

[^2]: Arguably you should create a separate CL for that (go/small-cls), but who
    am I to judge? Unless I am your teammate...
