---
title: "Limited creativity"
date: 2025-05-31T16:20:54+02:00
tags:
  - dev
  - meta
  - serenity
---

I feel I got to a point where my own environment is limiting my creativity. And
this is something I would like to change. Allow me to explain.

I have a myriad of ideas in my head. Recently I've been noting down some of them
in my [PKM](https://logseq.com/), which reduces stress. On the other hand, most
of these ideas ended up becoming abandoned bullet points, lost in the sea of
interconnected pages in my knowledge graph.

I know what to do when I want to convert an idea into reality: the very first
step is to add it to my [task manager](https://culturedcode.com/things/), and
then schedule / prioritize it. This is a superpower that I love: it's virtually
impossible to forget anything that ends up in the task manager. Whether it's tax
season, or a random deadline to apply for something, or to cancel a recurring
subscription, or to buy tickets for a concert...full stop. The difficulty lies
in breaking down a large(r) and/or long(er)-term project into smaller,
actionable pieces.

There is at least one missing piece in my current workflow (and environment),
which I am still trying to figure out, to close the loop and become 10x more
productive, reducing the time between the conception of an idea and its
implementation.

The best example that illustrates it is [that post]({{< ref
"2024-10-13-new-series-raspberry-pi-fun-with-devops" >}}) about the Raspberry
Pi. It never took off (and it's still in my backlog!). Another example is the
[Kindle jailbreak]({{< ref "2025-05-17-winterbreak-hello-world" >}}) â€“ it took
me 4-5 months to do it. Once I started it, it took me only a few minutes to
start it[^1]. So the major bottleneck is to kick start a project. I am very
confident in my current skill set and knowledge for the execution once it has
taken off.

What can I do in order to be more effective in terms of converting abstract
ideas into small, concrete and actionable items?

The discovery journey continues[^2].

[^1]: _Hours_, if you account for taking notes plus waiting for the process to
complete.

[^2]: Why is the title "limited creativity" if, apparently, the flow of ideas
    doesn't stop? Isn't this somewhat paradoxical? I take a practical
    standpoint: it's useless to have a myriad of ideas if they do not become
    concrete. Virtual ideas is essentially the same as nothing. Output (or
    deliverables, if you will) is the metric that matters most of the time.
