---
title: "Why self-answer questions in your own blog instead of Stack Overflow?"
date: 2025-01-09T21:39:29-03:00
tags:
  - dev
  - meta
  - selfhosted
---

I am a fan of the [Stack Exchange](https://stackexchange.com/) network, which
includes [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/).

At the time of this post, I even link to [my
profile](https://stackoverflow.com/users/1745064/thiagowfx) there from the
footer of this website.

Nonetheless,
[nothing](https://substack.evancarroll.com/p/the-erasure-of-luigi-mangione)
beats [owning](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42642089) your own
[content](https://gist.github.com/hopeseekr/f522e380e35745bd5bdc3269a9f0b132):

Theodore R. Smith:

> If someone with 20,000+ karma has their nicely-formatted questions closed so
> quickly, what must the newbies and rank-in-file encounter? This is probably a
> big reason why it's declining.

Moderators tend to be extremely (nit)picky there, oftentimes in a way that is
obtrusive and wielding gatekeeping, especially to newcomers.

It's great when you're under the radar and avoid them; otherwise, it can be
quite cumbersome although, statistically speaking, it's unlikely that you would
encounter this experience. It only happened to me once in 12 years using the
site – but it's worth to note I am not much active there.

I am trying to post these "today I learned" posts in my own blog for a myriad of
reasons, some of them including a) owning my content, b) not having to fight for
the right of my own content to exist, c) not wasting time on [frivolous
discussions](https://xkcd.com/386/) with moderators.

And there's a bit of a psychological dopamine hit as well – it surely feels good
to look back at a subset of lessons from what I have accomplished / learned,
represented by textual blog posts.

In my opinion though the dopamine is only healthy because the blog is a toy
project. If I had to commercialize it and/or have to care about viral content /
number of readers / impressions / ad revenue then it would sooner or later feel
burdensome and transactional.
