---
title: "2026"
date: 2026-01-12T17:15:37-03:00
tags:
  - ai
  - dev
  - posse
  - serenity
---

Tech. Geopolitics. 2026 is terrifying. 2026 is exciting. Both can be
simultaneously true. You can both like and dislike the current state of affairs
(yes, this includes LLMs), but your individual stance won't change the pace in
which the world evolves.

After spending most of 2024 significantly avoiding LLMs for coding, and after
spending most of 2025 carefully and skeptically observing, and eventually
(gradually) taming them, I'm kickstarting 2026 by fully embracing them.

It's no panacea; and it doesn't need to be hype (arguably, hype is terrible).
Treat the LLM selection and driving process as you would when picking an
operating system, a text editor, a package manager, a smartphone, or an ETF.
Pick one, embrace it, ignore the (noise of the) rest, and then life moves on.

As such, I am announcing two new initiatives.

One: I am coining an AI[^1] tag in my blog: https://perrotta.dev/tags/ai/. I tend
to write concise posts, primarily about workflows, with occasional tips (tips,
not _advice_. There's already way too much advice out there.). No "hot takes".

Two: I am introducing a public blogroll: https://perrotta.dev/blogroll/. This
contains a subset of blogs I follow in a grassroots and organic manner (hello,
RSS!), and makes it very frictionless for you to do the same (there's an OPML
file there that can be easily imported in a news reader of your choice). In my
esteemed opinion, the democratization of knowledge is important. I try to shy
away from politics, and learn from all sides: I believe you can follow _both_
DHH and Drew DeVault alike; there's no need to "pick" any one side.

[^1]: I am also introducing a ["posse"](https://indieweb.org/POSSE) tag. This
    post was cross-posted to my LinkedIn.
